---
title: "Opinion Dynamics - An Ising Like Approach"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2025-03-01-talk-1
venue: "Huxley Building, Imperial College London"
date: 2025-03-01
location: "London, UK"
---

This talk was given at the Warwick Imperial Maths Conference Spring 2025, an undergraduate conference aimed to share various topics covering pure and applied mathematics as well as statistics. 

This conference was sponsored by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications and is the largest conference in its history.

## Abstract:

Understanding how opinions evolve in a society is a central challenge in social science, with applications ranging from political polarization to the spread of misinformation. Predicting individual opinions is challenging, however, techniques from statistical mechanics allow predictions of collective behaviour despite individual unpredictability. In this talk we will explore opinion dynamics using Ising-like models, introducing some well-known models including the voter model and the majority rule model. We will use the context of rumour spreading on a random graph and present findings using numerical methods such as Monte-Carlo simulations to analyse the emergence of consensus. Through this interdisciplinary lens, we aim to highlight how mathematical physics can provide insights into real-world social dynamics.

## Recording:

Due to technical reasons the recording is split into two halves. You can view the videos here:

<video width="320" height="240" controls>
  <source src="/John-Zou-PEK.github.io/files/0413_firsthalf copy.mp4" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

<video width="320" height="240" controls>
  <source src="/John-Zou-PEK.github.io/files/0413_secondhalf copy.mp4" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>